Added two new parameters `constrain_similarities` and `model_confidence` to machine learning (ML) components - [DIETClassifier](components.mdx#dietclassifier), [ResponseSelector](components.mdx#dietclassifier) and [TEDPolicy](policies.mdx#ted-policy).

Setting `constrain_similarities=True` adds a sigmoid cross-entropy loss on all similarity values to restrict them to an approximate range in `DotProductLoss`. This should help the models to perform better on real world test sets.
By default, the parameter is set to `False` to preserve the old behaviour, but users are encouraged to set it to `True` and re-train their assistants as it will be set to `True` by default, Rasa Open Source 3.0 onwards.

Parameter `model_confidence` affects how model's confidence for each label is computed during inference. It can take three values -
1. `softmax` - Similarities between input and label embeddings are post-processed with a softmax function, as a result of which confidence for all labels sum up to 1.
2. `cosine` - Cosine similarity between input label embeddings. Confidence for each label will be in the range `[-1,1]`.
3. `inner` - Dot product similarity between input and label embeddings. Confidence for each label will be in an unbounded range.

Setting `model_confidence=cosine` should help users tune the fallback thresholds of their assistant better. The default value is `softmax` to preserve the old behaviour, but we recommend using `cosine` as that will be the new default value, Rasa Open Source 3.0 onwards. The value of this option does not affect how confidences are computed for entity predictions in `DIETClassifier` and `TEDPolicy`.

With both the above recommendations, users should configure their ML component, e.g. `DIETClassifier`, as -
```
- name: DIETClassifier
  model_confidence: cosine
  constrain_similarities: True
  ...
```
Once the assistant is re-trained with the above configuration, users should also tune fallback confidence thresholds.

Configuration option `loss_type=softmax` is now deprecated. Use `loss_type=cross_entropy` instead.

The default [auto-configuration](https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/model-configuration#suggested-config) is changed to use `constrain_similarities=True` and `model_confidence=cosine` in ML components so that new users start with the recommended configuration.